---
author: teymur
comments: true
date: 2018-04-09 00:00:00+00:00
layout: post
slug: awt
title: Awt 
categories: Tutorial
published: false
tags:
- java
---


AWT (Abstract Window Toolkit).


* Component	Component is an object having a graphical representation that can be displayed on the screen and that can interact with the user. For examples buttons, checkboxes, list and scrollbars of a graphical user interface.

* Container	Container object is a component that can contain other components.Components added to a container are tracked in a list. The order of the list will define the components' front-to-back stacking order within the container. If no index is specified when adding a component to a container, it will be added to the end of the list.

* Panel	Panel provides space in which an application can attach any other components, including other panels.

* Window	Window is a rectangular area which is displayed on the screen. In different window we can execute different program and display different data. Window provide us with multitasking environment. A window must have either a frame, dialog, or another window defined as its owner when it's constructed.

* Frame	A Frame is a top-level window with a title and a border. The size of the frame includes any area designated for the border. Frame encapsulates window. It and has a title bar, menu bar, borders, and resizing corners.

* Canvas	Canvas component represents a blank rectangular area of the screen onto which the application can draw. Application can also trap input events from the use from that blank area of Canvas component.



Every user interface considers the following three main aspects:

* UI elements : Thes are the core visual elements the user eventually sees and interacts with. GWT provides a huge list of widely used and common elements varying from basic to complex which we will cover in this tutorial.

* Layouts: They define how UI elements should be organized on the screen and provide a final look and feel to the GUI (Graphical User Interface). This part will be covered in Layout chapter.

* Behavior: These are events which occur when the user interacts with UI elements. This part will be covered in Event Handling chapter


Every AWT controls inherits properties from Component class.

https://www.tutorialspoint.com/awt/images/awt_class_hierarchy.jpg

https://www.javatpoint.com/java-awt


Delegation Event Model


The Delegation Event Model has the following key participants namely:

* Source - The source is an object on which event occurs. Source is responsible for providing information of the occurred event to it's handler. Java provide as with classes for source object.

* Listener - It is also known as event handler.Listener is responsible for generating response to an event. From java implementation point of view the listener is also an object. Listener waits until it receives an event. Once the event is received , the listener process the event an then returns.


Component Class

* Constructor
* Properties
* Methods
* Events

Button 

Constructors
* Button()
* Button(String text)

Properties
* void setActionCommand(String command) 
* String getActionCommand()
* void setLabel(String label)
* String getLabel()

https://www.javatpoint.com/images/awthierarchy.jpg

AWTEvents


ActionEvent

String getActionCommand()
int getModifiers()
String paramString()

Constants 
ActionEvent.ALT_MASK - the alt modifier