## 


The continuous delivery pipeline is in most cases the same as the one we would use for CI.

While CI assumes that there are (mostly manual) validations to be
performed afterward, successful implementation of the CD pipeline results in packages or artifacts
being ready to be deployed to production. In other words, every successful run of the pipeline can
be deployed to production, no questions asked. 

Keep in mind that we continued using CI tool in the continuous delivery process diagram. The
reason behind this is that there is no substantial difference between CI and CD tools.


Service-oriented architecture (SOA)

Remote Process Calls
Another argument for monolithic applications is reduced performance produced by microservices’
remote process calls.

## Mutable Monster Server

We
create a web server that has the whole application and update it every time there is a new release.
Changes can be in configuration (properties file, XMLs, DB tables, and so on), code artifacts (JARs,
WARs, DLLs, static files, and so on) and database schemas and data. Since we are changing it on
every release, it is mutable

## Immutable Server and Reverse Proxy

Once we are finished with tests and are confident that the new release works as expected, all we
have to do is change the reverse proxy to point to the new release.

## Configuration Management (CM)

Puppet, Chef or Ansible

## API Versioning


# New enviroment


git all repo is attached to user

git@github.com:facebook/react.git

facebook - is user react is repo


git clone ssh

when use git clone ssh 
```	
git clone git@gitlab:root/avis.git
```
you have to setup public key to gitlab server 

## private repo 

you add members with permissions to project

i have to create jenkins user ??
or give jenkins privilage to clone 

we need to add Jenkins GitHub account as a collaborator to our project. 
