
## Java Swing

Java Swing tutorial is a part of Java Foundation Classes (JFC) that is used to create window-based applications. It is built on the top of AWT (Abstract Windowing Toolkit) API and entirely written in java.

Unlike AWT, Java Swing provides platform-independent and lightweight components.


The Java Foundation Classes (JFC) are a set of GUI components which simplify the development of desktop applications


The hierarchy of java swing API is given below.

https://www.javatpoint.com/images/swinghierarchy.jpg


AWT components are platform dependent so there look and feel changes according to OS. Swing components are platform independent so there look and feel remains constant.


To avoid the problem of deadlock in Swing based window applications, we must create the GUI of our window application using an Event Dispatching Thread and not the main thread. 


https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/deployment/deploymentInDepth/index.html

Rich Internet application (RIA) (applets and Java Web Start applications).

* The HTML page in which the RIA will be deployed
* The JNLP file for the RIA
* The JAR file containing the class files and resources of the RIA


Java Web Start  ----

JNLP 









An applet is a Java program that runs in a Web browser

JavaFX

Jar

JAR file format such as electronic signing

Java Archive Tool  - jar command


manifest file

jar cfe Main.jar Main Main.class

The Java Runtime Environment (JRE) can directly call this application by running the following command:

java -jar Main.jar

JAR file that is created (c), updated (u), extracted (x) from, or viewed (t)

META-INF/MANIFEST.MF


jar cvf TicTacToe.jar *


the files in the archive retained their relative path names and directory structure. The Jar tool provides the -C option that you can use to create a JAR file in which the relative paths of the archived files are not preserved.

jar cf ImageAudio.jar -C images . -C audio .

The -C images part of this command directs the Jar tool to go to the images directory


e basic format of the command for viewing the contents of a JAR file is:

jar tf jar-file

* The t option indicates that you want to view the table of contents of the JAR file.
* The f option indicates that the JAR file whose contents are to be viewed is specified on the command line.
* The jar-file argument is the path and name of the JAR file whose contents you want to view.

jar xf TicTacToe.jar - extract all files


Suppose that you want to add the file images/new.gif to the JAR file. You could accomplish that by issuing this command from the parent directory of the images directory:

jar uf TicTacToe.jar images/new.gif


jar cvfm Hello.jar META-INF\MANIFEST.MF -C out/ .


Class-Path: jar1-name jar2-name directory-name/jar3-name
By using the Class-Path header in the manifest, you can avoid having to specify a long -classpath flag when invoking Java to run the your application.


may need to reference classes in other JAR files from within a JAR file.

For example, in a typical situation an applet is bundled in a JAR file whose manifest references a different JAR file (or several different JAR files) that serves as utilities for the purposes of that applet.

You specify classes to include in the Class-Path header field in the manifest file of an applet or application. The Class-Path header takes the following form:

Class-Path: jar1-name jar2-name directory-name/jar3-name
By using the Class-Path header in the manifest, you can avoid having to specify a long -classpath flag when invoking Java to run the your application.

Note: The Class-Path header points to classes or JAR files on the local network, not JAR files within the JAR file or classes accessible over Internet protocols.


Sealing JAR Files ?


signing and verification

* The signer signs the JAR file using a private key.
* The corresponding public key is placed in the JAR file, together with its certificate, so that it is available for use by anyone who wants to verify the signature.

public key encrypt 
private key decrypt

you encrypt signature with private key and only public key can open it



Java Web Start Application
