---
author: teymur
comments: true
date: 2019-04-09 00:00:00+00:00
layout: post
slug: rmi
title: Java rmi
categories: Tutorial
tags:
- java
- rmi
---

# RMI

distributed object application.


> Objects with methods that can be invoked across Java virtual machines are called remote objects.	

An object becomes remote by implementing a remote interface, which has the following characteristics:

1. A remote interface extends the interface java.rmi.Remote.
2. Each method of the interface declares java.rmi.RemoteException in its throws clause, in addition to any application-specific exceptions.


RMI passes a remote stub for a remote object. The stub acts as the local representative, or proxy, for the remote object and basically is, to the client, the remote reference. The client invokes a method on the local stub, which is responsible for carrying out the method invocation on the remote object.


> Note: With versions prior to Java Platform, Standard Edition 5.0, an additional step was required to build stub classes, by using the rmic compiler. However, this step is no longer necessary.\


Starting the application includes running the RMI remote object registry, the server, and the client.



By extending the interface java.rmi.Remote, the Compute interface identifies itself as an interface whose methods can be invoked from another Java virtual machine. Any object that implements this interface can be a remote object.


```
package compute;

import java.rmi.Remote;
import java.rmi.RemoteException;

public interface Compute extends Remote {
    <T> T executeTask(Task<T> t) throws RemoteException;
}
```

```
package compute;

public interface Task<T> {
    T execute();
}
```

RMI uses the Java object serialization mechanism to transport objects by value between Java virtual machines. For an object to be considered serializable, its class must implement the java.io.Serializable marker interface.


Different kinds of tasks can be run by a Compute object as long as they are implementations of the Task type. The classes that implement this interface can contain any data needed for the computation of the task and any other methods needed for the computation.


Because RMI can assume that the Task objects are written in the Java programming language, implementations of the Task object that were previously unknown to the compute engine are downloaded by RMI into the compute engine's Java virtual machine as needed. This capability enables clients of the compute engine to define new kinds of tasks to be run on the server machine without needing the code to be explicitly installed on that machine.


```
package engine;

import java.rmi.RemoteException;
import java.rmi.registry.LocateRegistry;
import java.rmi.registry.Registry;
import java.rmi.server.UnicastRemoteObject;
import compute.Compute;
import compute.Task;

public class ComputeEngine implements Compute {

    public ComputeEngine() {
        super();
    }

    public <T> T executeTask(Task<T> t) {
        return t.execute();
    }

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        if (System.getSecurityManager() == null) {
            System.setSecurityManager(new SecurityManager());
        }
        try {
            String name = "Compute";
            Compute engine = new ComputeEngine();
            Compute stub =
                (Compute) UnicastRemoteObject.exportObject(engine, 0);
            Registry registry = LocateRegistry.getRegistry();
            registry.rebind(name, stub);
            System.out.println("ComputeEngine bound");
        } catch (Exception e) {
            System.err.println("ComputeEngine exception:");
            e.printStackTrace();
        }
    }
}
```

The RMI provides remote communication between the applications using two objects stub and skeleton.


stub
The stub is an object, acts as a gateway for the client side. All the outgoing requests are routed through it. It resides at the client side and represents the remote object.

skeleton
The skeleton is an object, acts as a gateway for the server side object. All the incoming requests are routed through it.

stub and skeleton makes serialization
In the Java 2 SDK, an stub protocol was introduced that eliminates the need for skeletons



## CORBA

The Java Platform Standard Edition, v1.4, provides an Object Request Broker (ORB) and two CORBA programming models that can utilize the Java CORBA ORB and Internet InterORB Protocol (IIOP).


Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) technology is the open standard for heterogeneous computing

Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) technology is the open standard for heterogeneous computing.. 


Remote Procedure Calls (RPC)

EJBs use RMI over IIOP for their distributed object model, and use the Java Transaction Service (JTS) for their distributed transaction model
