---
author: teymur
comments: true
date: 2018-02-17 22:16:08+00:00
layout: post
slug: csharp
title: Csharp
categories: Tutorial
published: false
tags:
- csharp
---

# C sharp

JIT - just-in-time
CIL - Common Intermediate Language 
CLS - Common Language Specification 
CLR - Common Language Runtime 
CTS - Common Type System 

###  CLR
The runtime layer is properly
referred to as the Common Language Runtime, or CLR. The primary role of the CLR is to locate, load, and
manage .NET objects on your behalf. The CLR also takes care of a number of low-level details such as
memory management, application hosting, coordinating threads, and performing basic security checks
(among other low-level details).

### CTS
The CTS specification
fully describes all possible data types and all programming constructs supported by the runtime, specifies
how these entities can interact with each other, and details how they are represented in the .NET metadata
format

### CLS
Understand that a given .NET-aware language might not support every feature defined by the CTS. The
Common Language Specification, or CLS, is a related specification that defines a subset of common types
and programming constructs that all .NET programming languages can agree on.



like VB, C# supports the notion of class properties (as opposed
to traditional getter and setter methods) and optional parameters. Like C++, C# allows you to overload
operators, as well as create structures, enumerations, and callback functions (via delegates).

### Language Integrated Query (LINQ) ?


partial keyword. ?
dynamic keyword


#### Managed vs. Unmanaged Code

code that cannot be directly hosted by the .NET runtime is termed unmanaged code.